Multiple players with local authority! So, in this video
we'll be adding a Network Transform to our player
and making sure that this type of movement works. So, this is going
to be the end result, is that I can
move this character from two places. So, in Game View,
for example, I have my hand on the keyboard of the Client, and the right
hand character is moving and on the Host the left hand. So, we
can actually kind of have a little fight, that looks more like a multiplayer game.
OK. [Laughs] So, that's what we're going to do in this video.
So, just before we solve this problem, let's see what the
problem really is. So, I'm going to play the game, launch a
Host, and get my Local Client ready, which I can merely
move around the screen, I'll move it to the left. Now, let's hop
over to the Client Machine, launch a Client
instance and get its Client ready, and move it to
the right. OK, so
what issue are we having. Well, if
I go back to the Host, and move my thing
even further to the left, you see the Client
hasn't noticed that that's happened.
We're missing a Network Transform, of course and the same the other way around.
If on the Client I move, the
Host doesn't see the move. OK, so it's simply
a question of using Network Transform. There is a subtlety to it
but for now I want you to just use the Network Transform
that we've talked about before, to get
the player movement syncing. Use the NetworkTransform component,
read about Local Player Authority,
and then, as a bonus, discover the effect of setting this setting.
You'll actually find that just the Network Transform will fix the problem,
but Local Player Authority still does something.
So, see if you can have a play around in Scene View, and
see if you can work out what Local Player Authority
does. And ideally post the result of what you find
in the discussions, before you finish the challenge, and then, you've really kind
kind of finished it and committed an answer. Even if it's wrong it doesn't
matter, the idea is that you've explored. So, go ahead, pause the video,
and see if you can get this Local Player Authority working!
Well, welcome back!
So, let's have a look! What do we need to do to make it work?
Well, it's simply go to the Player Prefab and add ourselves
a new component, which is the Network Transform Component, that we saw
before. I'm actually going to move this up, because I just want it to
be right next to identity. I want to look down this and go, what is this thing? It's
a transform, a cylinder, it's got a renderer. I don't really care about the
rendering, for the moment, but I do care that it's got a network identity,
with Local Player Authority or without. We'll see
the difference in a moment, and then, a Network Transform is the key. Let's just
make sure that works. So again, we slightly
laboriously have to go to our Client, let it sync,
come back in here, just check that this
Player Prefab has now received
its Transform Component, which it hasn't yet which means the
dropbox hasn't quite finished syncing. It's a little clunky doing it this way, but I've found it's
the fastest way to get the version of the game across. Now, a common
mistake, if it hasn't gone across to see you haven't saved over here. I
have saved but it's worth checking. And then, in
a moment, we should find that we get a Network Transform.
Ah slightly frustrating. Again, in a more
serious environment, you would probably be using version control here,
but we're trying to iterate so fast, that we want to make sure
we can as quickly as possible get this change propagated. So, let's just try
once more. So, the problem
I'm having here is just distributing my game, if you like. Here you
go, the Network Transform has arrived on the Client! So, let's play!
Get the Host going, get the Client ready on the
Host, over to the Pure Client Machine.
Launch Client, Client ready! OK, so I moved to
the right, on the PC on the Client, and back here
I'm going to move to the left. And you can see it's working.
In fact, look from here I can see the other player. I've got my hand on
the keyboard of the other machine. Awesome! And again I can get another
Client Machine, and I can
see myself moving on here. So, it's all working. That's fantastic!
The question is, what does this Local Player Authority checkbox actually
do for us. So, stop the game, and you need to actually
turn off the Local Player Authority, before you start. It seems to
remember once it's playing, so you can't do this in Play Mode.
So, I'm going to just let this change propagate,
so the player now no longer has a Local Player Authority
on it. Let's go and make sure that's gone over to the
Client Machine, it probably hasn't.
It seems to be refreshing. There you go perfect!
Now, let's run it with the Local Player Authority setting turned
off. So, get the Host and its Client ready, Make sure we can move around, we can.
Put it to the left again. Over to the Client,
enable the Client, get it's Client ready, reach over to the other
keyboard, and move over to the right. OK, so it looks
like, back on the Host, that these transform
changes aren't actually being sent, now.
So, if from the Client I start moving now,
without Local Player Authority on, then
we do not have a movement being received
back on the host. So, it does actually break
things, because the Client Network Transform
is not being told to send the Transform change
up, it's all coming from the Host. In fact, if we're on the Host
and we select this right hand guy and move him out and then look
at the Client, it will move. Let's test that by say moving it off the ground.
There it goes! So, all the transform changes
are coming from
this side, from the Server side,
on the Host and being sent across to the
Client, which is obviously backward. It's the wrong way.
So, we need to leave the
Local Player Authority turned on.
And it has another consequence, the Local Player Authority, which
is, let me just show you this. So, I'm going to just slightly, naughtily
set it on the client, because the sync is a single check
box. Generally, you want to make all your changes here and let them sync over DropBox, but when
it's a boolean on/off like that, and it's the only thing you're changing
then I think you can probably get away with it. Don't tell anybody.
So, we're back on now, with Local Player
Authority on, and let's just confirm it works.
Here we are on the Client, so let's
move and then let's look at the Client, from the Host and that works
and vise versa. The host is moving left and right, and if I move
left, if I look on the Host and the Client... The Host
the Client, you get the idea! It's working! The point is that with this
Local Player Authority on, watch what happens if I go into
Scene View, on the Host and say move the right hand
player, the Client Player up into the air. It doesn't move,
hasn't moved, and the moment that I move
on the Client Machine, it'll snap back to that place.
You see that again! I move it up because we have
Local Player Authority on, on this
player, the bottom player, which is the player from the Host,
and this is not the Local Player, it knows
it's not the Local Player. Remember our script even accesses
if is not local player leave; the very
thing that's filtering the input, the very reason why in game,
if I go left and right arrows, only the left hand one moves.
It's because the system knows this is not the Local Player, which
means that the Network
Transform and Network Identity Components, who talk to each other,
know that this is not the Local Player. So,
we have no authority over this player. It looks like we're
moving it in Scene View, which of course you couldn't do at run time, but
over on the Client it's not moving, and the moment I touch a key
on the Client, boom, it snaps to the
new position. So, it is exactly what it says! The Local Player,
i.e. on the Client Machine, has authority over
the transform of this Game Object.
So, that's the point! What we need to next, of course, is get
cameras working, which of course comes with it's own challenge in multi-
player. But that's fine, we're here to solve the challenges, and I'll see you in
the next video!